Ada's changes to diagnostics (#149)
greenelab/covid19-review: content/10.diagnostics.md

Specifically this tests utilises two probes against RdRP of which one is specific for COVID-19 [doi.org/10.2807/1560-7917.ES.2020.25.3.2000045]. Importantly, this assay did not give any false positive outcome.

QRT-tPCR

Around the same time the Hong Kong university developed a Quantitative Real Time Reverse Transcription PCR (QRT-tPCR) against two region of the virus, orf1b and N region [doi.org/10.1093/clinchem/hvaa029]. 
Specifically, this assay was tested on samples coming from two SARS-Cov-2 patients, including a panel of positive and negative controls consisting of RNA extracted from several cultured viruses. 
The assay uses the N gene to screen patients, while the orf1b is used to confirm the infection [doi.org/10.1093/clinchem/hvaa029].
In this case the test was designed to detect sabercoviruses of which COVID-19 belongs. 
Considering that no other sabercoviruses are known to infect human at the moment, if the test comes out positive it means the patient is infected with the virus. 
However, this test does not allow to discriminate the genetics among different viruses. 

Limitation of PCR tests

> The PCR test can be highly sensitive. However, in high-throughput settings it can show several problems:

Author: ```suggestion
One advantage of PCR tests it their sensitivity; however, several limitations with these tests introduce challenges to high-throughput testing:
```

CRSPR test

Recently, two American companies, Mammoth Biosciences and Sherlock Biosciences, proposed to use CRISPR technology [10.1016/j.cell.2014.05.010]to implement the speed of Coronavirus diagnostic test [doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.06.20032334]. 
Their methodology includes RNA extraction from patient specimen; loop-mediated amplification (fast amplification) of the RNA; addition of the CRISPR reagents: CAS12, which cut the DNA or RNA, and the RNA guidance. 
The RNA guidance helps CAS12 to direct the cut of a sequence corresponding to a piece of the coronavirus genome. 
With this test, If CAS12 and its guide find a match in the RNA, then the cut occurs and the patient is positive to the novel Coronavirus. Specifically, when CAS12 is active it also cuts a designed strand containing molecules that change color once they are free [doi.org/10.1101/2020.03.06.20032334. 
This test can be as fast as 30 minutes and the result can be as simple as a color change on a strip [doi:10.1126/science.abb8400].

Limitation of CRISPR test

Fake-positives due to the specificity of the technique, as the guide RNA can recognise other interspersed sequences on the patient’s genome.

Sierological tests

> Despite diagnostic tests based on the detection of the genetic material can be quite sensitive, they cannot provide information about the real extent of the disease. In fact, they would not work on a recovered patient who defeated the virus. 

Reviewer: with extent I mean: how many people are/have been infected? For instance in Italy infected people (detected with RNA tests) are about 130000. Scientists from the Imperial College (London) estimate that this number can be way higher (in the order of millions).

> Despite diagnostic tests based on the detection of the genetic material can be quite sensitive, they cannot provide information about the real extent of the disease. In fact, they would not work on a recovered patient who defeated the virus. 

Author: Updated above!

> Despite diagnostic tests based on the detection of the genetic material can be quite sensitive, they cannot provide information about the real extent of the disease. In fact, they would not work on a recovered patient who defeated the virus. 

Reviewer: couldn't be said better! Thanks!

In this context, immunity tests can be significantly more informative. 
In fact, they can help scientists figuring out why the disease has different course among patients, as well as what strategy might work to manage the spread of the infection. 
Furthermore, sierological tests are crucial for the economic re-start of the hit area. 

> For instance, people that have developed antibodies can return to work prior to the others, helping to develop the herd immunity which will prevent further diffusion of the virus.

Reviewer: yes you are correct, just that are not so many paper about it

> For instance, people that have developed antibodies can return to work prior to the others, helping to develop the herd immunity which will prevent further diffusion of the virus.

Author: No worries, I didn't mean to make you do math :) Just trying to say I'm assuming we don't know yet what that number is for this disease!
